--- page 1 ---
Page 1 of 29 
 
 
PART II 
Statutory Notifications (S. R. O.) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan 
 
NOTIFICATION 
 
                                Islamabad, November 11, 2025 
 
S.R.O.2120(I)/2025.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 282B of the 
Companies Ordinance, 1984 (XLVII of 1984), the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan  is 
pleased to make the following amendments in the Non-Banking Finance Companies and Notified Entities 
Regulations, 2008, and the same having been previously published in official Gaz ette vide S.R.O 
1103(I)/2025, dated June 5th 2025, namely:-  
 
AMENDMENTS 
In the aforesaid Regulations, - 
 
(1) in regulation 2, in sub-regulation (1), - 
(i) after clause (i), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely: - 
“(ia) “ Buy Now P ay Later (BNPL)” means a buy now pay later 
arrangement, or a series of arrangements 
(a)  under which a person (the merchant) supplies good or services to 
  another person (the consumer); 
(b)  under which a third person (the BNPL provider) directly or  
  indirectly pays the merchant an amount that is for the supply  
  mentioned in paragraph (a); and 
(c)  that includes a contract between the BNPL provider and the  
  consumer under which the BNPL provider provides finance to the 
  consumer in connection with the supply mentioned in sub -clause 
  (a);” 
 
(ii) for clause (iii), the following shall be substituted, namely: - 
“(iii) Borrower” means a person who has obtained Finance from a lending 


--- page 2 ---
Page 2 of 29 
 
NBFC; 
 
(iii) after clause (xi), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely: - 
“(xia)  “Credit Guarantee Institution” means an NBFC licensed as 
Investment Finance Services, to undertake the activities provided under 
the Rule 2(1)(xx)(ii).”; 
 
(iv) after clause (xia), inserted as aforesaid, the following new clause shall be inserted, 
namely: - 
“(xiab) “Customer” means person to whom finance has been extended by 
a lending NBFC”; 
 
(v) for clause (xiaa), for the word “ User’s”, the word “participant’s ” shall be 
substituted; 
 
(vi) for clause (xxviib), the following shall be substituted, namely: - 
“(xxviib) “Microenterprises” means projects or businesses in trading or 
manufacturing or services or agriculture that lead to livelihood 
improvement and income generation . These projects or businesses are 
undertaken by micro entrepreneurs who are either self -employed or 
employ few individuals not exceeding 25 (excluding seasonal labour)  
Microenterprises may include carpentry, electrical works, food stalls, 
farms (crops & non -crops), lathe machine workshops etc. which have 
traditionally lacked access to formal financial services.;”; 
 
(vii) after clause (xxviib), substituted as aforesaid, the following new clause shall be 
inserted, namely: -  
“(xxviiba) “Nano L oans” are unsecured, short-term cash financing 
facilities, subject to maximum limits as determined by the Commission 
from time to time.”; 
 
(viii) for clause (xxxive), the words “or otherwise” shall be omitted; 
 
(ix) after the clause (xxxivf), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely: -  
“(xxxivg) i. “Qualified Financial Institution” means a local or an 
international multilateral financial institution rated AAA by a credit rating 
agency registered with the Commission.  


--- page 3 ---
Page 3 of 29 
 
ii.  For the purpose of this regulation expressions are defined as:  
(a) “Capital Event” means the depletion of the equity (after the 
Callable Capital has been completely drawn down by the lending 
NBFC) of the lending NBFC. 
(b) “Callable Capital” means share capital that, in terms of a written 
agreement entered into between the NBFC and a sponsor, 
shareholder and/or investors, as the cause may be, is agreed to be 
subscribed on the following terms and conditions: - 
iii.   The shares shall be fully subscribed over a period of twenty -four 
 (24) months from the date of the written agreement; 
(a) During the subscription period specified in sub-clause (a), 
the obligation to subscribe to shares shall be irrevocable 
and on demand, at the sole discretion of the NBFC; and  
(b) the subscription obligation shall be secured by a bank 
guarantee or standby letter of credit from a commercial 
bank rated AAA or higher by a credit rating agency 
registered with the commission;”; and 
(c) “Contingent Capital’’ means long term commitment for finance 
that, in terms of a written agreement entered into between the 
NBFC and a Qualified Financial Institution(s), is provided as a 
second loss facility on the following terms and conditions: - 
(i) at any time, the Contingent Capital, in aggregate, shall not 
exceed one and a half (1.5) times of the sum of paid up 
share capital and Callable Capital of the NBFC; 
(ii) the commitment shall, in acco rdance with the terms 
thereof, be irrevocable, confirmed and fully committed; 
(iii) the long -term commitment and the finance thereunder 
shall be available on a revolving basis; 
(iv) the finance under the commitment shall be callable on 
demand upon a Capital Event and at the sole discretion of 
the NBFC or on a direction by the Commission (after 
giving the NBFC a reasonable opportunity of a hearing), 
which shall be binding on the NBFC; and  
(v) the commitment shall be replaced by the NBFC if the 
financing entity ceases to be a Qualified Financial 
Institution;”; 
 


--- page 4 ---
Page 4 of 29 
 
(x) after clause (xl), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely: - 
“(xla) “Shariah Advisor” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in 
the Shariah Governance Regulations, 2023”; 
 
(xi) in clause (xli), - 
(a) in sub-clause (a), the words “and employees (including 
 contractual) up to 50; and” shall be omitted; and 
(b) in sub-clause (b), the words “and number of employee 
 (including contractual) between 51 to 100 for trading entity and 
 between 51 to 250 for manufacturing or service entity.” shall be 
 omitted; 
 
(xii) for clause (xliii), for the words “fixed assets” , the words “property plant and 
equipment;”; shall be substituted; and 
 
(xiii) clause (xlix) shall be omitted; 
 
(2) in regulation 4, -  
(i) after the words “Schedule I.”, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: - 
“Provided that an NBFC licensed for investment finance services shall be valid to 
undertake leasing, housing finance services, and discounting services without requiring 
separate licenses for  each form of business. It shall, maintain the minimum equity 
requirement prescribed in Schedule I for investment finance services.”; 
 
(3) in regulation 12, after the words “shall apply to”, the words “Lending NBFCs including” 
shall be inserted; 
 
(4) in regulation 15B,-  
(i) for sub-regulation ( 2), for the first and second proviso, the following shall be 
substituted, namely: -  
  “Provided that contingent liability of credit guarantee institution shall not exceed 
the 10 times of the equity and qualified capital specified under these regulations and its 
terms and conditions”;  
 
(5) in regulation 17,- 
(i) for sub-regulation (1), the following shall be substituted, namely: - 


--- page 5 ---
Page 5 of 29 
 
“(1) The total outstanding Exposure (fund based and non -fund based) by 
an NBFC to a person shall not at any time exceed twenty per cent (20) of the equity 
of an NBFC (as disclosed in the latest financial statements: 
Provided that the maximum outstanding fund based Exposure does not 
exceed fifteen per cent (15) of the equity of an NBFC:  
Provided further that the total outstanding Exposure non-fund based by a 
credit guarantee institution to a person shall not at any time exceed forty per cent 
(40%) of the equity, subject to that its contingent liability shall not exceed five 
time of its equity (as disclosed in the latest financial statements) and Qualified 
Capital as per the following terms and conditions: 
(i) the NBFC shall not take any exposure against the Qualified 
Capital unless it has obtained a certificate from its statutory 
auditor that all the requiremen ts specified above have been 
complied with; 
(ii) the certificate shall be supported by a legal opinion from a reputed 
law firm and copy of the certificate along with the legal opinion 
shall be submitted to the Commission; and  
(iii) with regard to its Qual ified Capital, the NBFC, in relevant notes 
to its financial statements, shall make disclosures, which are 
necessary for the users to understand its salient features: 
  Provided further that a non -deposit taking NBFC that is not involved in 
retail lending and provides finance to other NBFCs or financial institutions, may 
exceed the above limits by up to five percent and ten percent of its equity, 
respectively.”; 
 
(ii) for sub-regulation (2), the following shall be substituted, namely: -  
“(2)  The total outstanding Exposure (fund based and non -fund based) 
by an NBFC to any group shall not exceed twenty-five per cent (25) of the equity 
of an NBFC (as disclosed in the latest financial statements):  
 Provided that the maximum outstanding fund -based Exposure does not 
exceed twenty per cent (20) of the equity of an NBFC:  
 Provided further that the limits prescribed in sub -regulation (1) and (2) 
shall not be applicable to exposure taken by an NBFC in its own subsidiaries out 
of its surplus equity;  
 Provided that the total outstanding Exposure (non-fund based) by a credit 
guarantee institution to any group shall not exceed fifty per cent (50%) of the 
equity, subject to that its contingent liability shall not exceed five time of its equity 


--- page 6 ---
Page 6 of 29 
 
(as disclosed in the latest financial statements) and Qualified Capital as per the 
following terms and conditions: 
(i) The NBFC shall not take any exposure against the Qualified 
Capital unless it has obtained a certificate from its statutory 
auditor that all the requirements specified above have been 
complied with; 
(ii) The certificate shall be supported by a legal opinion from a 
reputed law firm and copy of the certificate along with the legal 
opinion shall be submitted to the Commission; and  
(iii) With regard to its Qualified Capital, the NBFC, in relevant notes 
to its financial statements, shall make disclosures, which are 
necessary for the users to understand its salient features. 
Provided further that an NBFC that is not involved in retail lending and provide s 
finance to other NBFCs or financial institutions, may exceed the above limits by 
up to five percent and ten percent of its equity, respectively.]”  
 
(iii) for sub-regulation (3),  
(a) in clause (a), for the expression “1,500,000”, the expression “3,000,000” 
shall be substituted; and  
(b) in clause (b), for the expression  “1,500,000”, the expression “3,000,000” 
shall be substituted;   
 
(iv) for sub-regulation (4), for  clause (c), the following shall be substituted, namely: -  
“(c) 85% of the unconditional financial guarantees, payable on demand, 
issued by the scheduled banks/DFIs [or NBFCs engaged exclusively in the 
business of issuance of gurantees,] rated at least ‘A’ or equivalent by a credit rating 
agency registered with the Commission, accepted as collateral by NBFCs shall be 
deducted from the Exposure.  Same weightage shall apply to the guarantees of 
similar nature issued by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), 
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) Deutsche Investit ions und 
Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG), Nederlandse Financierings -Maatschappij 
voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V (FMO), GuarantCo Limited, Asian Development 
Bank (ADB) and US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) or 
any other institution notified by the Commission.”; and 
 
(v) sub-regulation 5 shall be omitted; 
 


--- page 7 ---
Page 7 of 29 
 
(6) in regulation 20, after the words “Investment Finance Company”, the words “or non-bank 
micro finance company or Housing Finance Company” shall be inserted;  
 
(7) in regulation 21, - 
(i) in sub-regulation (2), for the words “In case of micro financing, the NBFC shall”, 
the words “All lending NBFCs including Non -Bank Micro Finance Companies  
shall:” shall be substituted;  
 
(ii) for sub-regulation (4), the following shall be substituted, namely: -  
 “(4) An NBFC shall not provide finance to a borrower whose CIB 
report reflects any unsettled default or write-off from any credit institution during 
the last three years. 
Explanation: - For the purpose of this regulation credit institutions means as 
defined in the Credit Bureaus Act, 2015”; 
 
(iii) in sub-regulation (8), after the word “The”, in the beginning, the word “lending” 
shall be inserted, and after the word “NBFC” , the words “involved in Micro 
Financing” shall be omitted; 
 
(iv) after sub -regulation (9) , the following new sub -regulation shall be inserted, 
namely: - 
 “(10) An NBFC engaged in digital lending shall ensure that the 
information required in the basic fact sheet is provided by the Borrower digitally 
as given in Schedule XIIAB.]”; 
(8) in regulation 22 ,- 
(i)  in sub-regulation (2), after the word “NBFC”, the words “or a listed NBFC” shall 
be inserted and after the word “interests.”, occurring at the end, the following table 
shall be inserted, namely: - 
“ 
Shares of listed companies 30% of their current market value. An NBFC 
shall monitor the margin on at least weekly basis 
and shall institute a robust top-up and automatic 
sell-out process at 25% and 50% erosion in the 
margin held respectively. An NBFC may 
choose different percentages on the basis of the 
documented credit policy approved by their 


--- page 8 ---
Page 8 of 29 
 
board 
Listed TFCs Exposure against listed TFCs which are rated 
‘A’ (or equivalent) or above by a credit rating 
agency registered with the Commission shall be 
subject to a minimum margin of 10% Exposure 
against listed TFCs rated ‘A–‘ and ‘BBB’ shall 
be subject to a minimum margin of 20%. 
Bank deposits and Certificate 
of Deposit of NBFCs or DFIs 
and Certificates of 
Musharaka issued by 
Modarabas with  minimum 
credit rating of A- by a credit 
rating agency registered with 
the Commission. 
15% 
Government backed 
securities 
10% 
Pledge of trading stocks 25% 
Hypothecation of trading 
stocks 
50% 
 ”; 
(9) in regulation 25, in sub-regulation (8), for the words “Section 234(3) of the Ordinance” , 
the words “Section 225(1) of the Companies Act, 2017” shall be substituted;  
 
(10) for regulation 28, in sub-regulation (1),- 
(i)  after clause (da), the following new clauses shall be inserted, namely:- 
“(db) Existing Lending NBFC that hold valid license from the 
Commission may apply for the conversion of its license to digital lending NBFC.”; 
“(dc) Lending NBFCs shall comply with the guidelines issued by the 
Commission on Grievance Redressal System and report to the Commission the 
information specified in the guidelines.”; and 
“(dd) Lending NBFCs shall maintain a website containing following 


--- page 9 ---
Page 9 of 29 
 
minimum information;  
(i) latest financial statements;  
(ii) profile/List of Board of Directors;  
(iii) complaint handling mechanism and related details; 
(iv) addresses/contact details of branches (if applicable); and 
(v) SECP investor complaints and web addresses;” and 
(ii) in clause (g), sub-clause (vii) shall be omitted;   
 
(11) in regulation 35A, - 
(i) in sub-regulation (2),  
(a) after the word “A”, in the beginning, the words “non -deposit 
taking” shall be inserted; 
(b) for clause (i), the following shall be substituted, namely:  
“(i) It shall have a minimum equity of Rs. 150 million or such 
higher amount as the Commission may notify, including the 
minimum equity requirement as specified under schedule I of 
Non-Banking Finance Companies and Notified Entities 
Regulations, 2008.”; and 
(c) after clause (i), amended as aforesaid, the following new clauses 
shall be inserted, namely: -  
“(ia) shall be eligible to obtain the approval of P2P service 
provider after operating for a minimum period of one year from 
the date of business commencement and obtaining a credit rating 
of at least BBB. 
 Provided that NBFC shall submit 12 Month Audited 
Accounts.”; and 
“(ib) It shall have minimum five directors on the board.”; 
 
(12) for regulation 35B, in sub-regulation (1), for the expression “XVI”, wherever occurring, 
the expression “XVIA” shall be substituted;  
 
(13) in regulation 35C, in sub-regulation (2), after the word “valid” , the  words “for single 
platform” shall be inserted; 
 
(14)  in regulation 35D, -  
(i) in sub regulation (1), 


--- page 10 ---
Page 10 of 29 
 
(a) in clause (a), after the word “borro wing”, the words “for BNPL and 
working capital finance or any other activity as may be allowed by 
Commission on case to case basis;” shall be inserted;  
 
(b) in clause (b), for the word “fifteen”, the word “twenty” shall be 
substituted;  
 
(c) in clause (e), for the word “Users”, the word “participants” shall be 
substituted; 
  
(d) in clause (i) , for the word “investors”, the  word “lender’s” shall be 
substituted; and 
 
(e) after the clause (i), amended as aforesaid, the following new clause shall 
be inserted, namely: - 
 “(j) shall create a “platform contingent fund” wherein at least 5% 
of its after -tax profits shall be credited and the platform contingent fund 
shall be separately disclosed in the statement of financial position.  
P2P Service Provider  may invest platform contingent fund into liquid 
assets.”;  
 
(ii) in sub-regulation (2), clause (c) shall be omitted;  
 
(15) in regulation 35E,- 
(i) in sub-regulation (1),  
(a) after clause (a), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: -   
 “Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable in case of 
secured lending backed by tangible security with adequate insurance 
coverage”; 
(b) after clause (b), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: -   
“Provided that in case of secured lending backed by tangibl e 
security with adequate insurance coverage, exposure of a single lender to 
the same borrower shall not exceed Rs. 5,000,000/-”; 
(c) after the clause (b), amended as aforesaid, the following new clause shall 
be inserted, namely: -   
“(ba) the exposure of a single borrower from multiple lenders on a P2P 


--- page 11 ---
Page 11 of 29 
 
Lending Platform, shall not exceed Rs. 1,000,000/-  
  Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable in case of 
secured lending backed by tangible security with adequate insurance 
coverage;” 
(d) for clause (c), the following shall be substituted, namely: - 
“(c) maximum limit for a single lender on all P2P Lending Platforms, shall 
be as under or any other limit specified by the Commission from time to 
time: 
(i) for an individual: Rs. 1,000,000; 
(ii) sole proprietor, and section 42 company: Rs. 5,000,000;  
and 
(iii) other Lenders: Rs. 50,000,000.”; 
(e) in clause (d), for the words “12”, the words “36” shall be substituted;  
(f) for clause (e), the following shall be substituted:-  
“(e) lenders shall meet the following eligibility criteria ; 
  (i)  high net worth persons having net worth of at least Rs. 15 
   million excluding personal residence;  
  (ii)  person having taxable income exceeding Rs. 4,100,000  
   per annum 
Provided that such lender shall only be allowed to extend credit 
for the loan ticket size not exceeding to Rs. 100,000, with a loan tenor not 
exceeding 12 months.  
 Provided further if the non-performing loans on the P2P platform 
exceeds 5% of the outstanding principal amount of the platform and 10% 
of the outstanding principal amount of the P2P service provider, the 
service provider shall cease onboarding the individual lenders.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this sub -regulation, “non -performing 
loans” refer to outstanding loans, including principal and markup 
payments, where the days past due (DPD) exceed 30 days. 
(g) in clause (f), the word “and”, occurring at the end, shall be omitted; and 
(h) after clause (g), the word “and”, at the end, shall be inserted and the 
following new clause shall be inserted, namely: - 
“(h) lenders’ outstanding lending exposure on a P2P lending platform shall 
not exceed five times of the P2P Service Provider’s equity.”;  
(ii) in sub-regulation (4), after the word “conditions”, the full stop, at the end, shall be 
substituted with a colon and the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: -  
 “Provided that in case of auto disbursal, a pre -approved risk assessment 


--- page 12 ---
Page 12 of 29 
 
algorithm, based on lender’s past transactions, has been applied and the lender(s) 
have pre -authorized such transactions under specific and explicit conditions 
outlined in the agreement with the P2P Lending Platform”; 
 
(16) in regulation 35F,- 
(i) in sub-regulation (1), after clause (d) , the following new para shall be inserted, 
namely: -  
“The decision for revocation of permission shall be taken after providing the 
NBFC an opportunity of being heard.”; 
(ii) in sub-regulation (2),- 
(a) for the word “cancelled”, the word “suspended” shall be substituted; and 
(b) after clause (b), the following para shall be omitted; and 
(iii) in sub-regulation (3), clause b., the word “and Users”, at the end, shall be omitted;  
 
(17) in regulation 35G,- 
(i) in sub-regulation (1), after clause (g),  the following new clause shall be inserted, 
namely: -  
“(h) internal audit plan to assess the controls and system readiness of the platform.  
Implementation of the audit plan shall be under the oversight of audit committee 
of the board.”; and 
(ii) in sub-regulation (2), after the word “deceptive”, the full-stop shall be omitted and 
the following words shall be inserted, namely: -  
“and comply with the guidelines for advertisement as applicable on NBFCs 
engaged in digital lending;”; 
 
(18) in regulation 35I,- 
(i) in sub-regulation (1), in clause (a), after sub-clause (ii), the following new sub-
clauses shall be inserted, namely: -  
“(iii) potential impact on loan servicing and portfolio management if the 
platform ceases  to operate;”;  
“(iv)  the nature of the investment, associated risks, and the platform’s role in 
providing services;” and 
“(v) that peer to peer lending is not an investment product with features like 
tenure linked assured minimum returns, liquidity options, etc.”; 
(ii) in sub-regulation (2), after clause (v), the following new clause shall be inserted, 
namely: -  


--- page 13 ---
Page 13 of 29 
 
“va. information on loan buy -back options offered to lenders, if any, and 
mechanism in case a lender opts to exit the P2P Lending Plat form or a particular 
transaction;” and 
(iii) after sub -regulation (2), the following new sub -regulation shall be inserted, 
namely: -  
“(3) P2P service provider shall be required to obtain explicit declaration from the 
lender stating that he/she has understood all the risks associated with the lending 
transactions and that P2P platform does not assure return of principal/payment of 
interest. The declaration shall also state that there exists a likelihood of loss of 
entire principal in case of default by a borrower. The P2P platform shall not 
provide any assurance or guarantee for the recovery of loans.”; 
 
(19) in regulation 35K,- 
(i) for sub-regulation (1), the following shall be substituted, namely: -  
“(1) Fund transfer between the participants on the P2P Lending Platform shall be 
through trust or escrow accounts mechanisms as per specified terms and conditions 
of trust or escrow. Such accounts shall be maintained and operated by a licensed 
bank in Pakistan that is at least an ‘A’ rating from a credit rating agency. At least 
two trust or escrow accounts, one for funds received from lenders and disbursal, 
and the other for collections from borrowers, sh all be maintained. All fund 
transfers shall be through bank accounts and cash transactions shall be 
prohibited.”; 
(ii) in sub-regulation (2), for the word “escrow”, the word “trust or escrow”  shall be 
substituted; and 
(iii) after sub-regulation (3), the following sub-regulation shall be inserted, namely: -  
“(4) Trust or escrow accounts shall be audited annually by the statutory auditor of 
the NBFC and same shall be submitted to Commission and uploaded on P2P 
Lending Platform”; 
 
(20)  in regulation 35L,- 
(i) in sub-regulation (1), in clause (iii), for the word “User’s”, wherever occurring, the 
word “participants” shall be substituted; and 
(ii) after sub -regulation (2), the following new sub -regulations shall be inserted, 
namely: -  
“(3) P2P Service Provider shall comply with the relevant requirements of 
information technology, cybersecurity and data protection as given in the schedule 


--- page 14 ---
Page 14 of 29 
 
XVIIB; and  
(4) P2P service provider shall have the adequate winding down plan in place for 
the P2P plat form and plan shall be disclosed to lenders before entering into the 
arrangement of business.”; 
 
(21) for regulation 35M, the following shall be substituted, namely: -   
“35M. Reporting Requirements. - P2P Service Provider shall submit 
quarterly accounts to the Commission and periodical statements, reports, statistics 
and data in such forms, time and manner as may be specified by the Commission 
from time to time.”; 
 
(22) in regulation 67AC, sub-regulation (3), in clause (b), - 
(i) in sub-clause (i), for the words “or 1/3 members, whichever is higher,” the word 
“member” shall be substituted;  
(ii) in sub clause (ii), - 
(a) after the word “a”, the words “BOD level” shall be omitted; 
 
(b) after the word “representation”, for the word “of”, the words  
 “from the board and” shall be substituted; 
(c) after the words “Compliance Department; and”, the word “and” 
 shall be omitted; and 
(d) after the words “BOD”, the word “and” shall be inserted  and 
 the following new para shall be inserted, namely: -  
“• Co-opted experts, possessing knowledge, advanced 
expertise, and work/business experience in emerging technologies 
and the digital domain, may also be included in the committee, if 
deemed appropriate.” 
 
(23) in schedule IX, in para “ASSESSMENT OF FITNESS AND PROPRIETY”, - 
(i) in clause (c) “Competency and Capability”, in sub-clause (iii), after word “sector”, 
the following new provisos shall be inserted namely: -  
 “Provided that chief executive officer of a lending NBFC offering services 
through digital mode should have a minimum experience of three years in a senior 
management position, preferably in the regulated financial services sector;  
 Provided further that such lending NBFC shall have at least one non -
executive director with experience of seven to ten years preferably in the regulated 


--- page 15 ---
Page 15 of 29 
 
financial services sector”; 
(ii) in clause (d), “Conflict of interest”, in sub-clause (v), after the word “any”, for the 
word “entity”, the words “NBFC or entity” shall be substituted;  
  
(24) in schedule XIIA, - 
(i) in clause (1), for the word “two”, the word “one” shall be substituted;  
(ii) in clause (2), after the word “similar”, the words “form of ” shall be inserted and   
after the word “business”, the word “Pakistan” shall be omitted;  
(iii) after clause (4), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely: -  
“(4A), The chairman and the CEO shall not be the same person.”; 
(iv) for clause (5), the following shall be substituted, namely: - 
“Lending NBFC except NBMFCs shall have at least one female director on their 
board.   
 Provided that, NBMFCs shall have at least two female directors on their 
board, one of whom shall be the independent director”; 
 
(25) after schedule XIIA, the following new schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  
 
“Schedule XIIAB 
(Borrowers Fact Sheet for the lending NBFCs engaged in Digital Lending) 
See Regulation 21(10) 
1. For the consumer loans;  
Personal Information;  
a) Name of the applicant  
b) Fathers Name  
c) Computerized National Identity Card Number (CNIC) 
d) CNIC expiry date 
e) Address (Residential/Business)  
f) Contact Details (Personal/Business) 
g) Email Address  
 
Reference Details (at least two): 
a) Name  


--- page 16 ---
Page 16 of 29 
 
b) Contact Details  
c) CNIC Number  
d) Address  
 
Financing request:  
a) Amount  
b) Tenor  
c) Product category (i.e BNPL, Nano lending, EWA, Education finance etc.  
d) Purpose of the financing 
 
Existing credit exposure:  
a) Name of credit institution  
b) Loan Amount  
c) Outstanding Balance  
d) Maturity Date 
 
2. For the business loans;  
Business Information;  
a) Name of the Business:  
b) Address:  
c) Phone Number  
d) CNIC# of owner/CEO 
e) National Tax Number (if applicable)  
f) Business Type:  
(i) Manufacturing  
(ii) Agricultural  
(iii) Services 
(iv) Commercial  
(v) Any other  
g) Registration Status;  
(i) Sole proprietorship  
(ii) Partnership  
(iii) Single Member Company 
(iv) Private/Public Company  


--- page 17 ---
Page 17 of 29 
 
 
Management Information;  
a) Name  
b) Address 
c) Status (i.e Director/CEO/Sponsor) 
d) Contact Number  
 
Financing request:  
a) Amount  
b) Fund based/ non-fund based 
c) Tenor  
d) Purpose of the financing 
 
Existing credit exposure;  
a) Name of credit institution  
b) Loan Amount  
c) Outstanding Balance 
d) Type of financing (i.e running financing, asset financing, 
operating/financial lease etc)”;  
 
(26) Schedule XVI, occurring second time, shall be renumbered as “Schedule XVIA” and 
thereafter, for the expression “Annexure to Schedule XVI”, the expression “Annexure to 
Schedule XVIA” shall be substituted; 
(27) in schedule XVIA, renumbered as aforesaid, - 
(i) in clause (1), after sub-clause (a), the following new sub-clause shall be inserted, 
namely: -  
“ab. Auditor certificate confirming the latest equity position of the Lending 
NBFC;”;  
(ii) in clause (1) , sub-clause (d), after the words  “identification of”, the expression 
“Users” shall be substituted with the expression “participants”; 
(iii) in clause (1), in sub -clause (f), the expression “Rs.250,000” shall be substituted 
with expression “Rs. 500,000”; and 
(iv) in clause (2), sub-clause (vi), for the words “Users”, the word “participants” shall 


--- page 18 ---
Page 18 of 29 
 
be substituted; and 
 
(28) after schedule XVII, the following new schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  
 
 “Schedule XVIIA 
Requirements of Information Technology, Cyber Security and Data Protection for P2P Service 
Provider  
[See Regulation 35L(3)] 
 
1. P2P service provider shall ensure that adequate cybersecurity measures and 
controls are in  place to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data and 
information. The controls shall include but not limited to: 
(a) Secure Access Management: - 
(i). Approved policies and procedures for secure access management should 
exist; 
(ii). User account of employees who leave the organization should be disabled; 
(iii). Ensure no privileged (admin) user IDs are in use without formal approval; 
(iv). Maintain inventory of privileged accounts and review frequency should be 
defined. 
(v). Ensure that access rights review document for application is in place.; 
(vi). Appropriate user creation, modification of rights, revocation of rights 
should be performed and approvals from line manager should be in place; 
and 
(vii). Validate that strong password policy is implemented which covers 
password complexity, minimum length, history and minimum age;  
 
(b) Perimeter and Network Security: - 
(i). Maintain high level network diagram of mobile application environment 
indicating the location of network devices, app and database servers and 
other components attached; 
(ii). Implement security measures to protect against unauthorized access or 
attacks; 


--- page 19 ---
Page 19 of 29 
 
(iii). Validate that inbound security policies are enabled for in scope application 
environment; 
(iv). Verify from firewall that only trusted users are allowed to access the 
applications; 
(v). Logging and monitoring process on firewall put in place; and 
(vi). Validate the details of Encryption mechanism, TLS version, digital 
certificate on application portal; 
 
(c) Endpoint, Server and Cloud Security: - 
(i). Verify that versions and patches of all endpoints are updated and secured; 
(ii). Ensure that software installation and upgradation rights on 
servers/instance is only limited to the Authorized person; and  
(iii). Ensure that software installation on endpoints should be restricted and 
approved on a need-to-use basis; 
 
(d) Application Level Security: - 
(i). Make sure all the components required for the application such as web 
server and other components are updated and running on latest versions; 
(ii). Implementation of Web Application Firewall (WAF) on customer facing 
interfaces should be ensured; 
(iii). Maintain details of the latest VAPT conducted on mobile application 
portal/mobile app, system, and database; 
(iv). Conduct VAPT on the in -scope system, including the mobile application 
portal/mobile app, system, and database; and 
(v). Ensure that API are not using outdated SSL/TLS protocols. 
 
(e) Data Security: - 
(i). Approved data security policy and procedure should be in place; 
(ii). Ensure that the relevant documentation is maintained and reviewed; 
(iii). Encrypt data at rest (including backups) and in transit using strong an d 
non-obsolete cryptographic algorithms; 
(iv). Ensure appropriate measure have been taken to avoid accidental deletion 
or overwrite of data/information; and 


--- page 20 ---
Page 20 of 29 
 
(v). Ensure that the separate channels are being used for storage and 
transmission of critical data. 
 
(f) Incident surveillance and monitoring: - 
(i). Ensure the policies and procedures are in place for Incident Management 
and Reporting; 
(ii). Ensure that the anomalies are detected and resolved in a timely manner; 
(iii). Ensure that incident management procedure is implemented and 
appropriate reporting matrix is maintained for such incidents; 
(iv). Incident response functions shall be implemented in application system, 
responses to any incident should be documented for record; and 
(v). Ensure that the potential risks and vulnerabilities are identified in a timely 
manner, which could impact business continuity. Moreover, ensure 
reviewal and updating of the risk assessment. 
 
(g) Patch management: - 
(i). Validate that log of patches deployed are documented; 
(ii). Validate that formal process of approval is in place for patch testing, User 
acceptance testing and migration to production; 
(iii). Approved patch management policies and procedures should be in place; 
(iv). Procedure for approval of tested patches should be defined. UATs of the 
patches should be in segregated environment; and 
(v). Validate that patches are applied on test system first before provisioning 
to live. 
 
(h) Logging and backups: - 
(i). Validate that policies and procedures are approved and implemented for 
Backup and recovery of in-scope application; 
(ii). Validate that logging is enabled at application, platform, database and 
operating system levels; 
(iii). Validate that log file can’t be modified, even system administrator not 
have access to modify own logs and logs must be secured at directory 
levels; and 
(iv). Frequency of backups should be defined in the system for both production 
and development and the same shall be documented in relevant policy. 


--- page 21 ---
Page 21 of 29 
 
 
 
2. P2P service provider shall develop a policy governing mobile Apps’ business 
objectives, standards, compliance, guidelines, controls, responsibi lities and liabilities. As 
a principle, the policy shall achieve a balance between the security of Apps, convenience 
and performance. The policy shall at least be revisited annually and/or when a significant 
change is made in the environment; 
 
3. P2P service provider may develop mobile Apps in -house, through outsourcing or 
by a combined approach. To manage mobile App development projects, P2P service 
provider shall:- 
a) Put in place necessary App documentation including manuals on 
development, testing , training, production, operational administration, 
user guides and Service Level Agreements (SLAs); 
b) Carry out vulnerability assessment, penetration testing and performance 
assessment of mobile Apps to ensure effective and smooth operation, 
before deploying the same in production environment; 
c) Carry out system and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) in an environment 
separate from the production environment; and 
d) Put in place an escrow arrangement in cases where third party vendors 
develop mobile Apps but the sourc e codes are not released to the P2P 
service provider 
 
4. P2P service provider shall ensure compliance with the requirements relating to the 
mobile App, as provided in Annexure-A to this Schedule; 
 
5. P2P service provider not be stored on any cloud infrastructure  outside the 
jurisdiction of Pakistan; 
 
6. P2P service provider shall arrange at least once every three years from the date 
approval, IT audits of its IT infrastructure including the platform including but limited to 
web application/mobile application by an i ndependent audit service provider having 
qualified CISA / Certified ISO27001:2013 Lead Auditor certification to check compliance 


--- page 22 ---
Page 22 of 29 
 
with regulatory requirements and shall submit the report to the Commission within the 
three months. 
 
7. P2P service provider shall  ensure compliance of all applicable laws in force in 
Pakistan related to cyber security, personal data protection, cloud usage and data privacy; 
and 
 
8. P2P service provider shall solely be responsible for any digital fraud as a result of 
security lapse, operational issues, architecture of the App or any other malfunction of the 
App. 
 
Annexure-A of Schedule XVIIA 
A. Architecture of Apps  
(i). P2P service provider shall be responsible for development of a standard 
architecture based on set of security principles, rules, techniques, 
processes, and patterns to design a secure App;  
(ii). The entire development of Apps shall revolve around the architectu re 
principles, which can be updated based on the learnings during the course 
of development of application layers (or equivalent) and operational usage 
and consumer feedback; 
(iii). P2P service provider shall ensure that the Apps architecture is robust and 
scalable, commensurate with the application volumes and borrower 
growth. For this purpose, a robust capacity management plan shall be put 
in place to meet evolving demand. 
 
B. Device Registration/Binding  
(i). P2P service provider shall implement a flexible device 
registration/binding functionality using only registered devices to access 
backend servers. 
(ii). The device registration/binding shall preferably be implemented using a 
combination of hardware, software and service information. In case, 
multiple devices are registered by a user: 


--- page 23 ---
Page 23 of 29 
 
a) the user must be notified of every new device registration on the registered 
mobile number, email or phone call; and 
b) P2P Service Providers shall maintain record of all registered devices, 
providing the user a facility to disable a registered device. 
 
C. Authorization and Authentication of the User 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that explicit customer consent in a 
convenient manner is obtained before allowing registration of Apps; 
(i). A login authentication shall be in place. 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that the access to personal data is 
protected by strong customer authentication mechanism including: 
a) Implementation of multi -factor authentication (MFA) for registration of 
Apps user-account; 
b) Strong and configurable PIN/password/pattern or a b iometric credential 
such as face recognition or fingerprint recognition; 
c) Time-based one-time passwords (TOTP) for authentication; 
d) OTP auto -fetching functionality; The validity of OTP shall not exceed 
more than 120 seconds. 
e) Configure maximum number of faile d attempts of authentication after 
which access to the App is blocked; 
f) Maximum duration for termination of inactive mobile service sessions 
shall not exceed thirty minutes; 
g) Ensuring that user authentication shall be processed only at the App 
owner’s server-end; and 
h) Ensure that authentication attempts are logged and monitored to detect 
login anomalies and possible breaches. 
D. Protection of Sensitive Personal Data 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that sensitive information is not stored 
in a shared store segment with other Apps on mobile devices. It is 
recommended to utilize only the device internal storage, which is virtually 
sandboxed per App or preferably in a container App without meddling 
with other applications or security settings of the mobile devices; 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that confidential data is deleted from 
caches and memory after it is used and/or uninstalled. Further, P2P service 
provider shall ensure that Apps erase/expire all application -specific 


--- page 24 ---
Page 24 of 29 
 
sensitive data stored in all tem porary and permanent memories of the 
device during logoff or on unexpected termination of App instance. 
(iii). Customer credentials and transactional data shall be encrypted while in -
transit and at rest using strong, internationally accepted and published 
standards for key length, algorithms, cipher suites, digital certificates and 
applicable protocols that are not deprecated/ demonstrated to be insecure/ 
vulnerable; 
(iv). Encryption keys shall only be stored with appropriate robust security 
controls and shall remain in a non-exportable form in a highly secure and 
standard key store. It may be bound to the secure hardware (e.g. Trusted 
Execution Environment, Secure Element for Android or its equivalent on 
any other platform). Further, Key Use Authorization shall be 
implemented, which should not be changed after generation of keys. 
 
E. Network and Interfacing Security 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure to enforce secure communication during 
the session establishment, exchange of data among Apps and backend 
services (including microservices); 
(ii). Transport layer encryption shall be implemented for all communications 
between the Apps and App servers. 
(iii). P2P service provider shall setup their own Trust Manager to avoid 
accepting every unknown certificate. Apps shall use valid certificate s 
issued by a trusted certificate authority; 
(iv). Apps shall have inbuilt controls to mitigate bypassing of certificate 
pinning; 
(v). Apps shall cease operations until certification errors are properly 
addressed; 
(vi). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps must be able to identify new 
network connections and appropriate controls shall be implemented under 
such circumstances; 
 
F. Session Management 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps have automatic user -logoff 
functionality after a configurable idle time -period not exceeding thirty 
minutes; 


--- page 25 ---
Page 25 of 29 
 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps have an easy to use and clearly 
visible logoff method; 
(iii). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps erase/expire all application 
specific sensitive data stored in all temporary and permanent memories of 
the device during logoff or on termination of App instance; 
(iv). P2P service provider shall ensure that a procedure is in place to detect 
multiple simultaneous login attempts and immediately communicate it to 
the concerned user through alter nate channels such as callback, SMS, 
email etc. 
 
G. Tampering Detection 
(i). P2P service provider shall implement necessary checks on the server-side 
to verify Apps integrity and to detect any manipulation. 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that installation of Ap ps is not allowed 
on rooted/jail broken devices; 
(iii). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps are not allowed to run inside 
a debugger/emulator. For this purpose, Apps shall have debugger/emulator 
detections in place. Further, P2P Service Providers shall no t allow any 
third party to debug the application during runtime. 
H. App Permissions 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure to restrict data shared with other 
applications on the device through fine-grained permissions; 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure to minimize the number of permissions 
requested by the App and ensure that the permissions correlate to 
functionality required for the App to work. Apps shall defer or relinquish 
permissions when the same are no longer needed; 
(iii). Unless for a specific business requirement in accordance with the security 
architecture principles, P2P Service Providers shall not allow users to 
navigate to other Apps, sites or view objects that are not trusted and 
outside of App environment. 
I. Secure Coding 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that their Apps developers adhere to 
industry accepted secure coding practices and standards; 


--- page 26 ---
Page 26 of 29 
 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that security libraries offered by mobile 
operating systems are correctly designed and implemented and that the 
cipher suites they support are sufficiently strong. Accordingly, P2P service 
provider shall only use necessary and secure services, protocols, 
components, and dependent software and hardware, including those 
provided by third parties. 
(iii). P2P service provider shall doc ument all required protocols, services, 
components, and dependent software and hardware that are necessary for 
any functionality of the application. 
(iv). P2P service provider shall have knowledge of all off -the-shelf 
libraries/modules/components utilized in the development of Apps; 
(v). P2P service provider shall ensure that code signing is used for the Apps to 
confirm the software author and guarantee that the code has not been 
altered or corrupted since it was signed; 
(vi). P2P service provider shall ensure that private key used for code signing is 
generated, securely stored and appropriately backed-up; 
(vii). P2P service provider shall ensure that minification and source code 
obfuscation techniques are used in the Apps; 
(viii). P2P service provider shall ensure to review application co de prior to 
release to customers after any significant change, to identify any potential 
coding vulnerabilities; 
(ix). P2P service provider shall verify that apps are not vulnerable to common 
coding vulnerabilities by performing manual or automated penetration 
testing. 
J. Input and Output Handling 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that any input coming from the client 
that is to be stored in databases is properly validated; 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that input and output data is properly 
sanitized and validated at the server and at the client-end; 
(iii). Auto-complete feature shall be disabled for sensitive information such as 
login IDs and passwords; 
(iv). Clipboard/ copy-paste function shall be disabled for sensitive data. P2P 
service provider may also use in -App keypad/ keyboard to capture the 
input from users. 


--- page 27 ---
Page 27 of 29 
 
K. Error and Exception Handling 
(i). Apps shall have a proper error-handling mechanism and all errors shall be 
logged in the server. 
(ii). Sensitive information and/or hints shall not be disclosed in error/warning 
messages and notifications; 
L. Monitoring, Logs and Data Leakage 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that the App usage behavior is 
maintained and monitored through automated mechanism and deploy tools 
to identify any anomaly in the usage and behavior. The mechanism shall 
integrate with complete process of customer support for verification to 
clear the anomaly for consumer protection; 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps logs do not contain any 
sensitive data and where essentially required should be masked such  that 
it no longer remains directly constructible in its complete form by collating 
components; 
(iii). The logs shall be stored separately from the application/database servers 
and protected with appropriate access controls; 
(iv). P2P service provider shall implement a ppropriate security safeguards to 
protect the logs from unauthorized modification or destruction; 
(v). P2P service provider shall ensure that all the ecosystem logs are available 
for audits; 
(vi). P2P service provider shall implement appropriate control to protect 
transactional data/information against any loss or damage; 
(vii). Server access controls and audit logs shall be maintained at the server level 
as per data retention policy. 
M. App Vulnerability Assessment, Patching and Updating 
(i). P2P service provider shall ensure that the Apps have passed through 
extensive and recursive vulnerability assessment, scan and intrusion tests 
to identify weaknesses in App through both internal and independent 
assessors; 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure that the vulnerabilities identified during 
assessment scans, usage of the App or through independent identifier 
sources are fixed and updated to respective platform stores; 
(iii). P2P service provider shall ensure notifying users about update and enforce 
it within a grace period depending upon the cri ticality of fixes. The 
information about fixes shall be published in App release notes. 


--- page 28 ---
Page 28 of 29 
 
N. Application Programming Interface (APIs) 
In order to establish adequate safeguards to manage the development and provision 
of APIs for secure delivery of third party pr ovided services through Apps, P2P 
service provider shall implement following measures: 
(i). Establish security standards for designing and developing secure APIs 
including measures to protect the API keys or access tokens, which are 
used to authorize access to APIs to exchange confidential data. P2P service 
provider shall define and enforce a reasonable timeframe for access token 
expiry to reduce the risk of unauthorized access; 
(ii). A well -defined vetting process shall be put in place for assessing the 
appropriateness of third parties in connecting to the Apps via APIs, as well 
as governing third -party API access. The vetting criteria shall consider 
third party’s nature of business, security policy, industry reputation and 
track record amongst others; 
(iii). Perform risk assessment before allowing third parties to connect to their 
systems via APIs, and ensure the security implementation for each API is 
commensurate with the sensitivity and business criticality of the data being 
exchanged; 
(iv). Strong authentication and access con trol mechanism to authorize and 
control access to designated API services in order to safeguard customer 
information; 
(v). Strong encryption standards and key management controls to secure 
transmission of sensitive data through APIs; 
(vi). The P2P service provider shall have the ability to log the access sessions 
by the third party(ies), such as the identity of the third party making the 
API connections, and the data being accessed by them. P2P service 
provider shall ensure to perform a robust security screening and testing of 
the API between the P2P service provider and third party before going 
live; 
(vii). Deploy real-time monitoring and alerting capabilities to ensure visibility 
of the usage and performance of APIs and detect suspicious activities. In 
the event of a breach, measures shall be in place to promptly revoke API 
keys or access tokens; 
(viii). Take steps to handle high volumes of API call requests by legitimate 
applications, and implement measures to mitigate denial-of-service attacks 


--- page 29 ---
Page 29 of 29 
 
while ensuring that these measures ar e commensurate with the criticality 
and availability requirements of the App. 
O. Customer Awareness 
(i). The App shall have a visible section/tab/module containing necessary 
legal, regulatory and compliance related information with required 
disclaimers and acknowledgment of facts (such as relating to the extent of 
collection, storage, and disposal of data), rights, responsibilities and 
liabilities of both the borrowers and P2P Service Providers; 
(ii). P2P service provider shall ensure to educate and inform borrowe rs/users 
clearly about how to access, download, securely use and cease to use the 
Apps within the App interface as well as through official application 
release channels in order to mitigate the risk of running malware-infected 
Apps; 
(iii). P2P service provider sh all ensure that a robust remedial process of 
customer support and complaint resolution is defined and implemented to 
address any security incidence albeit targeted, sectoral or global related to 
Apps user(s) or their back-end infrastructure; 
(iv). P2P service provider shall ensure that Apps are hosted only at the relevant 
App platform and shall not be hosted for downloading at App owner’s 
website or the vendor website or any other third-party website; 
(v). P2P service provider shall undertake active awareness campaign s to 
educate customer and internal staff about malicious messages, phishing 
attacks, and spoofing; 
(vi). All of the above information should be in a structured, clear and 
understandable form at least both in English and Urdu languages. 
 
[No. SY/SECP/8/13]
